## How to create and edit categories

Categories serve three purposes: They help you keep track of all your different products in the backend; they let you group the tickets into sensible categories in your shop; and they separate standalone products from additional products. 

We are going to sell additional products, i.e. products that can be purchased as add-ons to admission tickets in our shop. That means our next step is creating a category for additional products. Navigate to [Your event] → "Products" → "Categories". This page shows the list of all product categories, which at the moment should only include a single category named "Tickets". Click the :btn:+ Create a new category: button. Give the category a name such as "add-ons" and check the box next to "products in this category are add-on products". Click the :btn:Save: button at the bottom of the page. This takes you back to the product categories page, which now lists two entries: "Tickets" and your newly created category for add-ons. 

## How to create and edit products

Now that we have prepared all necessary categories for our products, we can set about editing the existing products and creating new ones to suit our needs. 

We will create a product that can be bundled with the basic ticket. Navigate to [Your event] → "Products" → "Products". The website should show you two tickets that have already been created along with the event: "regular ticket" and "reduced ticket".  Click the :btn:+ Create a new product: button. Enter "care box - medium" into the "item name" field and add appropriate translations for any languages you have activated. In the "category" field, select the add-on category you just created. Select "non-admission product" as the product type. On the "price" tab, set the price to 30.00 € and choose the appropriate sales tax. On the "availability" tab, check the box next to "only sell this product as part of a bundle". In our shop, we will also include a small care box at a price of 0 and a large care box at a price of 50 euros. So we repeat the same process for those two products with all the same settings, adjusting only name and price. 

We will edit the "regular ticket" so that we can base all other tickets on this one. Navigate to [Your event] → "Products" → "Products" and click the "regular ticket". This takes you to the "modify product" dialog. Change the English item name to "Standard Ticket" and add an appropriate translation for any other languages you have activated. Add a description that tells your customers what services are included in the ticket and what conditions have to be met in order for them to purchase it. You may also add a .png or .jpg file via the "product picture" button to further distinguish this products from the others in the shop. 

Next, click on the "price" tab. Change the "default price" field to your desired value. In our demo shop, that price is 250.00 €. Select the appropriate tax rate from the "sales tax" dropdown. Then switch to the "bundled products" tab. Click the :btn:+ Add a new bundled product: button. Select the previously created "care box - medium" at a quantity of 1 and a designated price part of 30.00 €. Click :btn:Save:. The medium care box is now included in the standard ticket by default and will be displayed to the customer as making up 30.00 € out of the total price of 250.00 € during purchase. 