# Vouchers

Vouchers are codes generated by pretix that can be redeemed for certain products in your shop. 
pretix allows you to automatically generate these codes as well as associated URLs and send them out via email. 
Vouchers have several useful applications. 
With vouchers, you can: 

 - make products available at a reduced price for voucher holders
 - make a product only available for a select group of people such as speakers at a conference or invited guests
 - reserve a certain quantity of a product quota for voucher holders
 - make sure that voucher holders still get access to a product even if it is sold out
 - make products only visible to voucher holders in your shop

Vouchers are not to be confused with [gift cards](gift-cards.md). 
Gift cards essentially function like an additional method of payment for your customers. 
They always represent a fixed amount of money that is subtracted from the total of the order. 
Gift cards can be used across different events and organizers and do not affect the availability and visibility of certain products. 

## Prerequisites

Vouchers are handled on the event level, so you need to create an event first. 
Your account needs to be activated before you can send out vouchers via email. 
See the tutorial's section on [account activation](../tutorial/organizer-account.md#activation) for further information. 

## How To 

The settings page for vouchers is located at :navpath:Your Event → Vouchers:. 
It gives you an overview of all vouchers that have already been created as well as options to search and filter vouchers. 

Clicking the :btn-icon:fontawesome-solid-plus: Create a new voucher: button takes you to a dialog for creating a single new voucher code. 
This is useful for when you are planning to publish a single voucher code for multiple people to use. 

The :btn-icon:fontawesome-solid-plus: Create multiple new vouchers: button takes you to a dialog for creating multiple new vouchers. 
This dialog also gives you access to the email settings, allowing you to instantly send out vouchers via email after creating them. 

The :tbn-icon:fontawesome-solid-download: Download: button lets you download a .csv file of the full list of vouchers you have created. 
This is useful for when you want to make a backup of your vouchers, distribute them via a different channel than the pretix-native emailer, or re-use the same type of vouchers for a different event. 

The :fontawesome-solid-upload:Import vouchers: button lets you upload such a list after saving it from a different event. 
This function is meant for importing a single type of voucher. 
If you have saved the full list of vouchers from a different event and it includes more than one type of voucher, then it is advisable to split the .csv file according to type and import each part individually. 

Whenever you generate one or more vouchers, it is recommended that you copy them and save them, for example in a plain text file on your computer. 

If you have checked the box next to "Send vouchers via email" and entered email addresses in the Recipients field, make sure that you are happy with the subject line and message text previews before you click :btn:Save. 
The emails will be sent out as soon as you click the :btn:Save: button. 

Whenever you create more than one type of voucher for an event, it is recommended that you enter a descriptor in the "Tag" field. 
This can make it easier to find, edit and clone certain sets of vouchers in the list. 
A useful entry in the "Tag" field could be the date and time at which the vouchers were created, the purpose for which they were created, or both. 
For example, "2024-07-08 09:45 Limited Time Offer" would be a very useful tag if there is a large total number of vouchers for the event in question. 

As described in the introduction, vouchers have several useful applications. 
Those applications will be explained in the following subsections. 

### Offering a limited discount 

This subsection explains how to create a voucher code for a limited time discount to attract more customers to your shop. 

Clicking the :btn-icon:fontawesome-solid-plus: Create a new voucher: button takes you to a dialog for creating a single new voucher code. 
The voucher code has already been filled out automatically, but you can change it and provide your own as long as it is at least five characters in length. 
Since this code is supposed to be able to be used more than once, set "Maximum usages" to 9999999. 
Set the "Valid until" option to the end of the limited time offer, for example the end of the following day. 
Set "Price effect" to "Reduce product price by (%)" and set "Voucher value" to "10" for a 10% discount upon use of the voucher. 
You can use the "Maximum discount budget" to limit the usage of the voucher. 
Another option of limiting potential losses in case of unexpectedly high usage of the voucher is setting a lower number of "Maximum usages". 
Uncheck the box next to "Show hidden products that match this voucher" and click :btn:Save:. 

### Exclusive product availability

This subsection explains how to use vouchers to make a product only available to a select group of invited guests. 
This option is appropriate for cases in which you know the group of people beforehand and have a full list of their email addresses, e.g. members of a club, speakers at a conference, or VIPs who get an invitation. 

First, create or edit the admission product for which you want to restrict availability. 
Open the "Availability" tab and check the box next to "This product can only be bought using a voucher".
The visibility toggle next to that options allows you to choose whether the product should still be displayed in your shop even to customers who do not have a voucher code. 
Next, create a quota, add only this product to it and set the total capacity so that it covers the number of emails you are planning to send out. 

Then, navigate to :navpath:Your Event → Vouchers: and click the :btn-icon:fontawesome-solid-plus: Create multiple new vouchers: button. 
Generate the same number of voucher codes as emails you are planning to send out. 
Under "Product", choose the product for which you want to restrict availability. 
If you have set the visibility toggle of the product to hidden, check the box next to "Shows hidden products that match this voucher". 
This option has no effect if the visibility toggle is set to "Show product with info on why it's unavailable". 
An optional step that can be useful if e.g. you are inviting VIPs is checking the box next to "Offer all add-on products for free when redeeming this voucher". 
This allows voucher holders to freely choose as many add-on products as they like on top of their tickets. 

Check the box next to "Send vouchers via email" in order to display the email settings. 
You can save your invited guests one step by including the placeholder {voucher_url_list} in the "Message" text. 
Enter the mail addresses into the "Recipients" field. 
The software will display an error message if the number of recipients and generated vouchers do not match up. 

### Reserving tickets for a certain group

This subsection explains how to use vouchers to ensure that a certain group of people gains access to an event, for example, guests invited to a concert by the performing artists. 
Navigate to :navpath:Your Event → Vouchers:, click the :btn-icon:fontawesome-solid-plus: Create multiple new vouchers: button and generate one voucher for every member of the group in question.
Optionally, you may choose a descriptive prefix such as "guest-list-". 
Set "Product" to your event's basic admission ticket, set "Price effect" to "Set product price to" and the voucher value to 0.00. 
This means that the voucher will entitle each holder to one basic admission ticket for free. 

There are two methods for ensuring access to tickets for the voucher holders: reserving tickets from a quota or allowing them to bypass quotas. 
For the first option, check the box next to "Reserve ticket from quota". 
You may have to increase the total capacity of the quota, particularly if the quota is already sold out. 
This method has the advantage that you can still keep track of products purchased using this voucher via quotas, just like all other products. 
The disadvantage is that this method does not give voucher holders reliable access to products if you selected one of the "Any product in quota" options under "Product" and the products are part of more than one quota with limited capacity. 
You can still use this method without worrying about that if you select a specific product under "Product", or if the products in question are only part of one quota. 

For the other method, check the box next to "Allow to bypass quota" instead. 
This gives voucher holders access to tickets even if all corresponding quotas are already sold out. 
You should choose this method over the other one if you selected one of the "Any product in quota" options under "Product" and the products are part of more than one quota with limited capacity. 

## Troubleshooting 

What are common problems that could be encountered here? How do you solve them? 

## Further Information

What other media do we have on the topic? Youtube videos, PDF handouts, vendor documentation (for plugins etc.) etc.? Link it here and explain what it does

## See Also 

Link to other relevant topics, for example, in the case of Payment Providers, link to the articles on payment settings and plugins. Do not link to pages already linked underneath the title heading, prerequisites, or further information. 
